* Act To Learn *                 -*-muse-*-

I just read a terrific book.  It is called "Action Trumps Everything".
It is about creating what you want in an uncertain world.  What do you
do when the future is inherently unknowable and unpredictable?  Most
of the tools that we have are for projecting past experience into the
future.

The big idea of the book is that if you cannot know the future you can
take small steps and learn.  Each action creates learning which in
turn defines the next action.  Instead of creating a map of the entire
journey to your destination consider moving one step closer.

Just moving toward your goal will make you aware of things that you
could not possibly have forseen.  No amount of thinking about your
goal will be better than a real experiment. 

If your action is done to learn then no outcome is a bad outcome.  If
you are hoping to start a business but you find out that there are not
enough customers, then that is a very positive outcome.  The most
important goal of each experiment is to learn.

Be willing to fully follow up on everything that you learn.  
    1. Adapt to the new realities that you find by changing strategy.
    2. Learn what next steps have the biggest opportunity.
    3. Adjust your goals by what you learn.

Control your investment on each step.  Make sure that you understand
what you can afford to lose, and what you are willing to lose.  These
are often two different things.

Act quickly.  In order to make progress it is important to keep the
steps small.  Try to reduce the size of your steps to maximize
effectiveness.  Identify things that you could do this month or this
week.  Even better, pick something that you could do today.

In situations where you cannot predict the future, it is best to
create it.  Actions will allow you to shape the future that you most
desire. Use what you learn along the way to follow the path of highest
benefit. 
