* Ideas that Change the World *                 -*-muse-*-

You can change the world by developing habits that make you more creative.  These habits are
quite simple but often neglected.  As a result many people are stuck in dead-end jobs or living
humdrum lives of boredom.  You can start changing the world simply by changing your world first.

Here are five practices that I have developed over the years to enhance creativity and amplify
effectiveness.  Applying these in your life will produce similar results.

1. **Focus on the pain**

Most of us try so hard to tune out the pain in our lives that we don't understand that it is an
indicator of where to change.  It is pointing you to the area where you can get the most benefit.
Analyze this pain and use it as motivation to make the needed changes.  Of course, this takes
courage! But it will result in the quickest personal improvements possible.

2. **Make small changes constantly**

Forget the big steps.  They will take care of themselves if you make small steps.  If you want to
loose 50 pounds, start by focusing on loosing one pound, or even not gaining a pound over
Christmas.  Any big goal is completely out of reach, until you begin taking concrete steps toward
it.  A quick win will get you energy you need to continue the change.  Find the smallest step that
is in the right direction.

3. **Spend time thinking**

Creativity take energy.  The most creative people spend time brainstorming, evaluating ideas,
analyzing problems, and setting objectives.  If you think things through, then you will act less
rashly.  You will have fewer failures and more success.  Thinking IS work.  Treat it as such, with
all of the seriousness of other work activities.

4. **Make a list and check it twice**

Consider keeping a list of things that you need to think through.  When you have some "think time"
this is a great way to seed it.  What things are bugging you?  What conflicts are unresolved?  What
is on your bucket list? What opportunities should you pursue next?  What things are you doing now
that you could stop?  These question are worth some serious time.

5. **Read more and watch TV less**

Reading stimulates the mind, while TV numbs it.  Pick a couple of nights a week to read for pleasure
or learning.  Budget time for both, since they are two different activities.

6. **Let yourself dream again**

Every kid is a dreamer.  But most of us stop dreaming by about 25.  Allow yourself the indulgence of
picturing your perfect life.  What latent dreams do you have?  What suppressed urges drive you?
Write them down.  This act alone may be enough to free you to think differently.  It will also give
you material to think through in more detail.

7. **Act to learn**

You won't know what works until you take action.  Pick something that you want to change and develop
a hypothesis of how it works.  Now, develop an experiment that will let you understand more, while
at the same time, making a small amount of progress.  The fastest way to learn is to take small
actions that are specifically done to learn more.  In several steps we can make real progress
quickly.  At each step you will have many more ideas to try, than weeks spent imagining possible
solutions.

--- 

Send me email if you wish to unsubscribe to future messages.  Your privacy is important to me.
