* Anticipating Important Trends *                 -*-muse-*-

Trends are powerful forces that change everything.  Opposing them is like trying to hold back the
ocean tide.  Make sure that you are always on the correct side of a trend. For those who are aware
of it, a trend presents lots of new opportunity. Here are four trends that you should anticipate and
take advantage of.


**Global communication**

Twenty years ago it was not very practical to have teams of people that worked from different
locations.  Today, that is the norm.  Even when people are co-located, they spend most of their time
working with virtual tools and remote partners.  In the future, most teams will be connected
virtually.  It will be unusual to have teams that meet together physically to conduct all of their
business.

This trend is an opportunity for people that know how to work effectively across distance,
time-zones, and cultures.  The work force of the future is made of people that know how to get
things done remotely.  These people are skilled at developing teamwork by effectively using tools to
remove communication barriers.


**Free distribution of information**

The internet has given us universal access to information.  It allows us to learn anything we need
to learn instantly.  It also allows us to provide information quickly and economically to
everyone.  This is a profound change that will alter everything about how we share information.

There is a lot of poor quality information that swamps the internet. Producing high-quality content
is the best way to rise above the din of noise.  The people that will win are those that can best
meet the needs of others, by producing timing info that people can use.


**Project-based work**

In a past era, the safest career path was to find a large successful company and work there for your
whole life.  That option no longer exists for most people.  The new workplace is composed of a sea
of contractors.  Each person enters the marketplace with a certain set of skills and barters for a
chance to use those skills.

People that do a great job, get another game token and get to play again.  This means that every
worker is responsible for their own personal and professional development.  You cannot rely on
anyone else to show you the path to success.  You must identify the opportunities that are the best
fit for your particular skills, and pursue them.


**Tactical partnerships**

Just like lifetime employment, long-term partnerships may have changed.  In a volatile world, we need
more flexibility.  Over the past years, we have seen a sharp increase in tactical partnerships.
These are formed in order to work together on a specific project.  The partnership is built around a
common interest and business goal.

For these types of business relationships it is very important to agree on the specific
expectations, and the extent of the cooperation.  When successful, these cooperative partnerships
may go on for many years.  The key is that they are based on short-term mutual interest.

